#summary Development plan, task lists and meeting logs by sprint, sprint burn down charts & sprint backlogs
#sidebar TableOfContents

= Sprint 1 (10. - 20.03.) =

== Theme: Quality in agile processes ==

 * Make a summary how quality is seen in agile processes. This summary is presented in group meeting.
 * QualityInAgileSummary

===Sprint produces: First version of program===
 * First version of program is already functional. There doesn't need to be much functionality, though.
 * Sprint was accepted.

----
= Sprint 2 (20. - 27.03.) =

== Theme: Quality assurance plan ==
 * Make Quality assurance plan for your team. The plan will dictate, how quality is controlled and assured in the project.
 * [Quality_assurance]

== Theme 2: Metrics used in project ==
 * Each team chooses metrics that are used to control process and product quality. These metrics are part of Quality assurance plan.
 * [Quality_assurance]

=== Sprint 2 kick-off ===
Sprint 2 scope and issues defined in issuelist

 * [http://code.google.com/p/agileet/issues/detail?id=8 Critical bug]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/agileet/issues/detail?id=4 Theme task]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/agileet/issues/detail?id=10 Continous integration]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/agileet/issues/detail?id=11 Look'n'feel]


===Sprint produces: Second version of program===
 * Sprint was accepted
----
= Sprint 3 (27.03. - 03.04.) =

== Theme 1: CMMI and agile processes ==
 * CMMI is a process improvement approach that provides organizations with the essential elements for effective process improvement. Does it work with agile processes?
 * [PrcessAndCMMI]

== Theme 2: Description of the process ==
 * Each team describe the process they are using. The description should provide comprehensive understanding among team members about the project's process.
 * [Process]
===Sprint 3 kick-off===
====[http://www.cs.helsinki.fi/u/tkairi/task-breakdown-3.png Task breakdown] (large)====
 * [http://code.google.com/p/agileet/issues/detail?id=10 Continuous integration]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/agileet/issues/detail?id=16 Add/delete users in db]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/agileet/issues/detail?id=17 Add/delete users in UI]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/agileet/issues/detail?id=5 Theme task]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/agileet/issues/detail?id=18 Complete XHTML validation]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/agileet/issues/detail?id=19 Graph drawing]

===Sprint produces: Third version of program===
 * Sprint was accepted
----
= Sprint 4 (03. - 10.04.) =

==Theme 1: Scalability of agile processes==
 * Agile processes rule in small- to medium-size projects. How do they work when process have hundreds of workers?
 * BigProjects
==Theme 2: Test driven software development==
 * In Test-Driven Development (TDD), one writes unit tests before implementation code. Team member use TDD in this iteration (you can use it in other iterations, of course). 

===Sprint 4 kick-off===
====[http://cs.helsinki.fi/u/tkairi/breakdown-4.txt Task breakdown]====
 * [http://code.google.com/p/agileet/issues/detail?id=24 Order games by ranking-bug]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/agileet/issues/detail?id=23 Reactivate deleted player]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/agileet/issues/detail?id=22 Success and error messages]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/agileet/issues/detail?id=21 Update documentation]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/agileet/issues/detail?id=6 Theme task]

===Sprint produces: Fourth version of program===
 * Sprint was accepted
----
= Sprint 5 (10. - 17.04.) =

==Theme 1: Risk management in agile processes ==
 * Risk management is essential part of project management. How does risk management work in agile processes?

==Theme 2: Quality summary==
 * In Quality summary team elaborate, how quality assurance was completed in the project and how it is visible in the quality of final product.

===Sprint 5 kick-off===
====[http://cs.helsinki.fi/u/tkairi/task-breakdown5.jpg Task breakdown]====


===Sprint produces: Release of the finished program and documentation===
 * After 5th iteration, the product and its documentation is handed over to instructor of group meeting. There is no need to make a user manual for the project.