#summary Quality assurance
#sidebar TableOfContents
= Introduction =
Quality assurance shall be achieved in the Pokkare project by means of several direct and undirect procedures. Direct procedures include testing, coding standards and peer reviews etc. Undirect procedures concern the software development process. Some of the quality aspects of XP, modified to fit the special circumstances of this project, are chosen to complement Scrum in order to achieve better quality.

= Direct procedures =
 == Unit testing ==
The target is to have comprehensive JUnit test cases of the system, covering at least 90% of the code. Sprint acceptance testing is done at the weekly peer reviews. Code is not presently integrated continuously. Integration shall be done as often as possible.

 == Functional testing ==
A release candidate is compiled weekly before the practice meeting. The tester shall be responsible for testing the functionality of the release candidate as well as run the JUnit tests. If the release candidate is found defunct, it is not accepted and shall be fixed before the release can be made. Functional tests are written by the development team according to the requirement specification.

 == Coding standards ==
Common coding standards shall be used throughout the project. Standard Java codestyle shall be used as per Eclipse IDE standard behaviour. Code shall be commented where functionality is not clear or it is otherwise needed. Refactoring of the code is done as per XP guidelines: when refactoring helps adding of new functionality or if after implementing the functionality an easier way to accomplish it emerges. The decision to refactor code is not based on the programmer's speculation, instead it's based on reacting to the state of the system. Developers are responsible for unit testing their own code, writing and running JUnit tests and documenting functional tests.

 == Peer reviews ==
Functionality shall be reviewed by the course practice group weekly. Added and/or changed functionality shall be reviewed internally by the team before issues (be it tasks or fixes) are accepted and closed. 

 - deployment 

 == Issue tracking ==
Issues shall be tracked using the code.google.com issue tracker. 

 == Documentation ==
Documentation of Pokkare shall be done according to agile conventions: whenever and only whenever it is needed. Documentation exists primarily for the benefit of the development team.

 == Project metrics tracking ==
Primary metrics in the project is finished functionality and open issues. Measurements according to these metrics shall be executed per sprint.

= Undirect procedures =
A modified XP process shall be used to ensure quality within the Scrum process. The following remarks describe the quality driven process.

 - Early delivery of a partially functioning system. This has been shown to correlate with quality.

 - Subsequent releases are frequent, thus steering the project is possible early. A release is made every week for the practice group meeting.

 - Real customer (and a real product). The product is envisioned by a member of the development team. The product is intended for his use, thus making sure the resulting program is what it was supposed to be. The peer group will be responsible for prioritizing the functionality for each release/sprint according to the project owner's suggestions.

 - User stories of additional functionality shall be used and documented in the code.google.com wiki as issues (tasks) and later included in the requirement specification.

 - Metaphors are used to help the developers and peers at the practice group to grasp the system functionality. Main metaphors include the MVC model and user stories documented in the requirement specification.

 - Adequate resources are provided. Adequate resources in the scope of the project are provided by the university. Team members are required to provide their own development related equipment.

 - Meeting deadlines

 - Self organized team

 - Communication

 - Priorization of functionality

 - Simple design